Why do I want to pursue a master in data science? 
I love engineering, I love robotics, I love rockets, and I think data science is the perfect tool to 
assist me as an engineer in todays digital world. One of the most impactful expierences I've had in
my life was when I got the oppurtunity to work at the San Diego Super Computer Center in the Wildfire
Prevention Program. It was a program where our team was tasked with figuring out a way to assist
firefighters in creating a plan to extuinguish fires in an efficient and safe way. There is only
so much water and so many brave firefighters that can put their life on the line to put out a fire.
The way our team could assist them is manipulating data already avaible to create a real time model
of fires as they occur. Using vegetation data, humidity, local weather radars, recent rainfall, and
previous fires burn time, the machine learning model was able to predict the permeter of a fire with
repect to time as soon as the fire started. {insert some more on how the data worked}.

What is your expeirence with data structures, linear algebra, python?
My expierence with data structures has been mostly through online courses through coursera and EdX. I've been
able to gain expierence using binary search, recursion, search trees, and hash tables. I've had a little
bit of expierence using SQL to store data in tables and retrieve it. I've had a lot of expierence using anayltical
reasoning in my alculus and Matlab programming through my mechanical engineering undergradaute. I used matlab a lot in both
my rocket club, to predict and model velocity loss through pipes, and in my classes for projects like modeling the
navier stokes equations for a particle emitted from a rocket engine. Most of the Matlab projects involved
recursive structures, many embedded loops, matrix multiplication and dot products, and objects oriented programming becuase 
a lot of the physics equations had to be written in their own functions and then called back in different scenerios.

Why pick Berkeley?
My goal right now is to maximize my learning potentional so that I can use this powerful tool in the enginseering
world to assist my projects and better informed decisions for the systems that I manage. I really love the part of your program
where classes are sychronous, most classes have group projects, and there are small classes where students 
really get to know each other. I love learning with people that have different perspectives than me, and Berkeley
attracts exceptionally diverse and incredibly smart students from around the globe and I would love to be apart of that.
Additionally, I really look forward to taking the captstone class and the machine learning at scale class because 
doing projects is my job and what I want to continue to do and implementing machine learning into my projects
would be my ultimate goal. 

Do you have any questions for us?
What seperates successful students in the Berkeley MIDS program?





 I found it super
impactful that I got to use such a complex model and work with such incredible people that were working
towards solving a problem that destroys so many lives. This expierence ingrained the use of machine learning
and data-driven solutions as an incredible tool in my head. The next expierence I had where I took some of
the lessons I learned from the wildifre modeling job was when I worked with a head and neck surgeon from 
the UCSD medical school on a device to support her patients muscular distrophy. The patient had artificial
nerves installed post surgery that restricted them from creating a seal with their mouth. This was a problem
because the patient was a muscisian and they loved to play the saxophone. I used a 3D scanner to scan the contours
of the patients face. I designed a mouth piece using solidworks and I ran finite element analysis simulations
to make sure it supported his face. And then I prototyped it using 3D printers and tested 37 different iterations
on the patient until I reached a prototype that worked.


gift: mechanical engineering, building things with my hands, robotics, worked with medical 3D printed 
equipment, rocket club building 

passion: 

matters:

help: protect the enviorment for future and current generations, protect fire fighters, stops pollution
from seeping into the atmosphere, 

Tell us more about you expierence at work:
At L3 Harris Im a systems engineer which means Im responsible for overseeing the design, managment,
and implementation of a large scale communcation system throughout its life cycle. Im the interface
between mechanical engineers, electrical engineers, and software engineers that ensures their designs
work together and accomplish the systems goal. I love it because I get to work with diverse team of 
engineers who all have varying perspectives on how a goal needs to be accomplished. This is probably 
my favorite part of my job and the reason why I love that Berkeley MIDS has so many group projects. 


Linear algebra, data structures and algorithms:
At my university I took linear algebra, differential equations, vector calculus, and calculus for
analytical geometry. Much of my mechanical engineering coursework involved using and manipulating
matrices for complex geometries.
I also took MATLAB courses (insert here) where I used recursion, binarary search, functions, loops
and lots of linear algebra to accomplish tasks such as computing the flow through a rocket nozzle 
After university I've been taking lots of Massive Online Open Courseware classes for Python, C, and
SQL. I've gained some expierence using memory allocation, recursion, and cleaing data in SQL. I've even
used some Pandas and Pytourch, but I'm still relatively low expeirence and I am super looking forward
to taking the introduction to Python course to refresh my skills.





There have been two profound moments I have had that have formed my passions as an engineer. The first 
being the expierence I had when I partnered with a head and neck surgeon and UCSD. Where I worked
with a patient who had parttial facial parylsis as a result of a cancer removing surgery in his cheek 
where the surgeon cut his natural cheek nerves and installed artificial nerves. Which is super cool! 
But the artificial nerves were not as strong as the patients natural nerves so the patient could no longer
fully close his mouth to create a seal. Which was sad because he was a retired engineer who loved playing
for his church band on the weekends. So I thought about how to approach the problem and it was quite
complex. So I started with the data and observations, took pressure measurements, 3D scans, FEA simulations
and gathered a boatload of data to inform my design decisions. However, the first prototype didnt work
and I began to iterate, like back propagation in a ML code I had to iterate over and over again to fix
my errors. Eventually I was able to arrive at a design (after 37 iterations) that created the seal.
It was incredible and I new I loved using my engineering skillset to help people. The second most impactful expierence
is when I got to witness the powers of machine leanring to not just help one person, but millions of people.
I got the opprutunity to work at the San Diego Supercomputer Center where my team used a Deep Learning
model to predict the perimeter of a real time wild fires trained on previous fires, real time weather
data near by, real time wind data, and geographical vegetation data. Machine learning gave me the ability
to solve a problem that effects millions of people instead of just one person. My goal is to help as 
many people as I can using my skills as an data driven engineer. While I was at the center, I observed
many areas of growth for our models that could increase the accuracy rates of our models and potential save
many more lives. I left the Super Computer Center when I graduated to work at L3 Harris because they offered to
pay for my graduate school education and be flexible with my learning goals. I think UC Berkeley could help
me learn how to improve the models that are already being run and expand the program to include natural
distastor events such as floods and hurricanes. UC Berkeley's project driven classes, diverse community of engineers,
and curriculum could help me work towards my goal of returning to the program. Machine learning at 
scale. 
