Trying to understand the origins of machine learning and how it came about.

My interest was first peaked by Andrew Ng in Courseeras machine learning class.

I then learning about Imagenet and Fei Fei Li. She is the Sequoia Capital Professor of Computer Science at Stanford University.
Fei Fei immigrated to the US from Chengdu China when she was 15. She then majored in Physics at Princeton University while simultaenously
working at her parents dry cleaning business on the weekends. She then went on to pursue a PHD in electrical engineering from
Caltech in 2005. 2005-2009 she became an assistant professor of electrical engineering at University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign.
She joined Stanford in 2009 and created Imagenet the largest machine learning labeled image dataset,
then served as the direct of Stanford Artificial Intelligence from 2013-2018. She worked at Google 
Cloud as Chief Scientists of AI/ML in 2017 to 2018. Google accepted a contract from the department of defense in 2017 to label
and use AI for drone images. Fei Fei took a lot of heat from this. She rejoined Stanford in 2018 where she started AI4ALL education
program for the underrepresented community in AI/ML with funding from Melinda Gates and Jensen Huang. In 2020 she joined the board
of directors of Twitter until 2022 when Elon Musk purchased the company and removed her from the board. 

Fei Fei created a competition using Imagenet in 2012 to create a machine learning program to learn images with the a small error. 
The group that beat all other groups with a 15.3% error rate (a big deal since the next 10 runners up were all in the 25%), was
called AlexNet. Which created a machine learning program that was different than everyone else, it was a convonluted neural network
or the first succesful use of Deep Learning. This levered the use of graphics processing units (GPU) during training. The team that 
made AlexNet was Alex Krizhevsky, Ilya Sutskever, and Geoffrey Hinton(PHD advisor). AlexNet was written in NVIDIA's CUDA. 

Alex Krizhevsky went on to found a startup DNN Research which he then later sold to Google in 2017. He then left Google to work at
Dessa.  He is the creator of the CIFAR-10 and CIFAR-100 datasets which is a image library used for labeling datasets.

Ilya Sutskever was born in the Soviety Union in 1985 and later immigrated to Israel. He then attended the University of Toronto
where he would get a PHD in computer science under Geoffrey Hinton and win the AlexNet competition in 2012. He then spent 
two months as a postdoc with Andrew Ng at Stanford and then returned to Geoffrey Hinton to join his company DNN research which was
then sold to Google. He was then hired as a research scientists at Google Brain. In 2015 he left Google to be cofounder and Chief
Scientist of OpenAI with Sam Altman. In 2023 he announced he would lead OpenAI's new Superalignment project. 

Geofrey Hinton Alex and Ilya's PHD advisor for AlexNet. Hinton was educated at King's College, Cambridge where he changed his major 
four times before arrived at expieremental psychology. He went on to recieve a PHD in artificial intelligence in 1978. He then 
wroked at University of California, San Diego (YUH) and Carnegie Mellon University. While at UCSD he applied backpropagation
algorithm to multi-layer neural networks. In 2007 while working at the University of Toronto he published a paper on unsupervised
learning of image transformations which would be the foundation for his students in AlexNet. He then founded DNN Research which 
was acquired by Google until he resigned in 2023 where he said "part of him now regrets his life's work" { I wonder what Google
is doing that kinda scares me }

Andrew Ng was a born in the UK in 1976 to Honk Kong Immigrants. In 1997 he triple majored in computer science, statistics, and economics
from Carnegie Mellon Univerisity. While in University from 1996 to 1998 he did research for reinforcement learning at AT&T's
Bell Labs. 1998 earned his master degree from MIT where he built the first publicly available automatically indexed web-search 
engine for research papers on the web. In 2002 he recieved his PHD from Berkeley under Michael I.Jordan. He wrote a famous paper
titled "Shaping and policy search in reinforcement learning". Andrew started working in Stanford in 2002. In 2008 his research 
group was one of the first in the US to start advocating for the use of GPUs in deep learning. In 2012 Andrew and Daphne Koller
founded Coursera where he is CEO. He is also on the chair of the venture capital firm Woebot labs that uses data science for a therapy
chatbot. Also on the board of drive.ai for self driving cars, which was acquired by Apple in 2019. Founded Landing AI a company
that sells AI. 

Michael I Jordan recieved his PDH in Cognitive Science from UCSD in 1985. Jordan popularized Bayesian networks in the machine learning
community and is known for linking machine learning and statistics. Popularized the expectation maximization algorithm in machine
learning. 

Andrej Karpathy was born in Czechoslovakia and then immigrated to toronto when he was 15. Computer Science and Phyiscs bachelor
from University of Toronto in 2009 and a masters degree from University of British Columbia where he showed his first signs of 
interest in machine learning 

Books to read to further research: Architects of Intelligence and Machine Learning Yearning. 


